feat: run full nodes via docker (#38)
availproject/availproject.github.io: docs/validators/validator-node/validator-node-docker.md

2023-08-21 08:27:14 💻 Target environment: gnu
2023-08-21 08:27:14 💻 CPU: Intel(R) Xeon(R) Platinum 8175M CPU @ 2.50GHz
2023-08-21 08:27:14 💻 CPU cores: 1
2023-08-21 08:27:14 💻 Memory: 7835MB
2023-08-21 08:27:14 💻 Kernel: 5.15.0-1040-aws2023-08-21 08:27:14 💻 Linux distribution: Debian GNU/Linux 11 (bullseye)
2023-08-21 08:27:14 💻 Virtual machine: yes2023-08-21 08:27:14 📦 Highest known block at #02023-08-21 08:27:14 〽️ Prometheus exporter started at 127.0.0.1:96152023-08-21 08:27:14 Running JSON-RPC HTTP server: addr=127.0.0.1:9933, allowed origins=["http://localhost:*", "http://127.0.0.1:*", "https://localhost:*", "https://127.0.0.1:*", "https://polkadot.js.org"]2023-08-21 08:27:14 Running JSON-RPC WS server: addr=127.0.0.1:9944, allowed origins=["http://localhost:*", "http://127.0.0.1:*", "https://localhost:*", "https://127.0.0.1:*", "https://polkadot.js.org"]2023-08-21 08:27:14 🏁 CPU score: 674.66 MiBs2023-08-21 08:27:14 🏁 Memory score: 4.53 GiBs2023-08-21 08:27:14 🏁 Disk score (seq. writes): 324.35 MiBs2023-08-21 08:27:14 🏁 Disk score (rand. writes): 62.64 MiBs
2023-08-21 08:27:14 👶 Starting BABE Authorship worker
```

## Staking Set-up

> Once the node is running and connected to the network, it needs to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your node is up and running, and connected to the network,
```

linked to accounts with bonded (staked) funds in order to be eligible
to become an active validator.

### Creating accounts

We recommend creating two accounts, `stash` and `controller`, each

> with their own key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with its own unique key:
```

- The controller key is used to control staking actions and submitting

>   transactions (paying for transaction fees).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- The stash key is used to control most of your funds. It is
  recommended that the stash key be a cold wallet or offline and not
  be used for account-related activities like submitting extrinsics.

> You can create the two accounts via the Explorer interface. The Kate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create these accounts, navigate to the Kate network explorer at [kate.avail.tools](https://kate.avail.tools/). For other networks, consult the [Avail Networks](/join-the-network/networks) page.
```

> network explorer is at [kate.avail.tools](https://kate.avail.tools/),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> for other networks refer to the [Avail

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Networks](/join-the-network/networks) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Once you have created the accounts, Ensure each account has enough
funds to pay the fees for making transactions. For validators

> participating in our testnet, contact the Avail team to have funds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're participating in our testnet, contact the Avail team for fund transfers.
```

> transferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- **Value bonded:** The amount of AVL tokens you want to bond from
  your Stash account. You may stake any amount above the minimum.
- **Payment destination:** The account where the rewards from
  validating are sent. More information can be found
  [here](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-staking#reward-distribution).

:::tip

You should not bond all of the AVL in that account, you will require
some AVL for transactions. Also note that you can always bond more
`AVL` later.  However, withdrawing any bonded amount requires the
duration of the unbonding period.

:::

Once populating the fields you can click bond. You will then be
promted to enter your wallet password. Enter your password and then
click **Sign and Submit**.

<img src={useBaseUrl("img/avail/staking-bond-3.png")} width="100%" height="100%"/>

You should now be ready to generate your session keys. Note the
**Session Key** button, in the next step we will generate a key to
submit here.  <img src={useBaseUrl("img/avail/staking-bond-4.png")}
width="100%" height="100%"/>

## Set Session Keys

Once your node is **fully synced**, you need to rotate and submit your
session keys.

### Rotate your session keys

> Run this command on the machine where you are running your Avail

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command on your Avail validator node machine:
```

> validator node (while the node is running with the default HTTP RPC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> port configured):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> While the node is running with the default HTTP RPC port configured.
```

```shell
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"id":1, "jsonrpc":"2.0", "method": "author_rotateKeys", "params":[]}' http://localhost:9933
```

The output will have a hex-encoded "result" field. The result is the
concatenation of the four public keys.  Save this result for a later
step.

You should now restart the node so it will use the new session keys.

### Submitting the `setKeys` transaction

You need to tell the chain your Session keys by signing and submitting
an extrinsic. This is what associates your validator with your
Controller account.

Navigate back to the [**Network &rarr;
Staking**](https://kate.avail.tools/#/staking/actions) if you
closed the window.  Ensure you are on **Account actions**, and select
**Set Session Key** on the bonding account you generated earlier.
Enter the output `from author_rotateKeys` in the field and click on
**Set Session Key**. Will be promted for password again.

<img src={useBaseUrl("img/avail/set-session-keys.png")} width="100%" height="100%"/>

After submitting this extrinsic, you will notice **Set Session Key**
changed to **Validate**. Ensure your node is in sync before
proceeding.

## Validate

> If you are ready to start validating you must click **Validate**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're ready to validate, click **Validate**.
```

<img src={useBaseUrl("img/avail/start-validating.png")} width="100%" height="100%"/>

You will be prompted to enter your validator commission

> percentage. Once you click on **Validate** you will be prompted for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

your password.

<img src={useBaseUrl("img/avail/set-validate-commission.png")} width="100%" height="100%"/>

Your validator is now ready to start validating. You can click the
stop icon should you wish to exit. Note that the Avail interface does
not check if your node is in sync.  You need to ensure your node is in

> sync. The Avail blockchain will select your node in the next epoch or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
